{"summary": "Applying a 10x/scale-breaking lens to the Desire→Reality design: at N=1 this is a service; at N=10,000 the accumulated material is not one asset but four separable ones — a LANGUAGE (a taxonomy of recurring self-deception shapes), a FORMAT (the portable personal context document), an OUTCOME LEDGER (the only desire→action→did-it-work dataset in existence, because nobody follows up), and a TWO-SIDED MARKET (each person's unmet desire is another person's capability). None of these require a platform, a database, or a headcount. Each requires a specific field to be captured at row 1 — and every one of them is free to add today and permanently impossible to backfill once the free reviews start arriving unstructured. The repo already has the cautionary tale in its own history: Batch 1 sent 20 contacts and lost the join keys, making 20 paid slots permanently unanalyzable. The article is currently drafted to invite free-form replies. That is the same failure about to repeat at larger N. Ten expansions follow; nine of them are markdown edits, and the biggest lever is the one that must happen before the first article ships.", "big_ideas": [{"idea": "Build the Contradiction Atlas: a public, growing taxonomy of the recurring SHAPES of human self-deception, derived from behavior logs rather than self-report. Not 'what people want' — the ~50-200 repeating structures of the gap between the story someone tells and what their AI history shows they actually did. Each entry: the narrative held / the behavior the log shows / the tell that detects it / the wrong prescription people usually get / the smallest step that actually moved someone.", "why_powerful": "MBTI, Enneagram, attachment styles, love languages — naming a pattern that a person recognizes in themselves is the most self-propagating artifact that exists, and those all sold tens of millions of copies built on SELF-REPORT. Nobody has ever built one from longitudinal behavioral evidence, because until 2026 nobody had structured access to hundreds of hours of a person's unguarded behavioral record. Structurally, a taxonomy also converts diagnosis from discovery (90 min of skilled labor, does not scale) into retrieval (5 min of matching, scales infinitely) — and it is the exact artifact class the LLMO plan needs: a citable, first-party, uniquely-sourced claim that AI search cannot get anywhere else. It is also compliant with the repo's own ownership doctrine: a taxonomy is a schema (OWN class), not a data lake (DO_NOT_BUILD).", "smallest_first_step": "Today, create experiments/desire-discovery/CONTRADICTION_ATLAS.md with exactly one row — Hiro's own, from the self-experiment already run — using a fixed 5-column schema. Every free review thereafter appends one row or increments a count on an existing row. Publish the atlas publicly at N=5 and again at N=20, honestly labeled with its N. Cost: one markdown file, zero yen, zero new capability.", "what_it_unlocks": "Diagnosis stops being labor and becomes lookup, which is the only way one person serves 10,000. It gives the corpus a public surface that grows without exposing any individual. And it creates the thing a nobody with zero audience can actually own: a vocabulary. Once people describe themselves using your names for their patterns, distribution stops requiring an audience."}, {"idea": "Ship a STRUCTURED RETURN FORMAT with the article, not a free-form invitation. Replace 'send me your Step 2 output and I'll read it' with an 8-field fill-in block that takes the submitter 2 minutes and produces a directly comparable record: the contradiction named in one sentence / what the usual AI praised / what the adversarial AI refused to praise / the 3 candidate directions / the one chosen / the anti-vision / what they've already tried and abandoned / one thing they do better than most people.", "why_powerful": "This is the entire difference between anecdotes and a corpus, and it costs one markdown block. Unstructured replies at N=50 are 50 stories you cannot compare, cluster, count, or publish. Structured replies at N=50 are a dataset with a distribution. Critically, this is also the FREE version of the sales funnel: the protocol is fully public, thousands can run it on themselves without consuming any of Hiro's 30-60 min/day, and only the returns come back. The prompt was already conceded as non-proprietary — so stop defending it and become the REGISTRY instead. 'Here is how your contradiction compares to 3,000 others' is a sentence only the aggregator can say, and it is precisely the reason people submit.", "smallest_first_step": "Before the note article is published, append the 8-field template to NOTE_DRAFT_SELF_ANALYSIS.md as a copy-pasteable code block, with one line: 'この形で送ってくれると、他の人のパターンと比べて読めます'. Zero cost. But it is only free BEFORE publication — after the first 30 free-form submissions arrive, that structure can never be recovered.", "what_it_unlocks": "Every future free review becomes a row instead of a favor. It decouples corpus growth from Hiro's available hours — the protocol runs on other people's time and returns comparable data. This is the single mechanism by which N goes from 5 to 10,000 without a platform, an app, or a hire."}, {"idea": "Own the +30-day outcome label, and then the trajectory. Make a standing, explicitly bounded promise with every free review: 'I will contact you exactly once, 30 days from now, with two questions: did you take the step, and what changed.' Later extend to a 90-day re-read where the person's revised desire is recorded against the original.", "why_powerful": "Nobody in the entire self-discovery, coaching, consulting, or AI-tool industry collects outcome data — because it is unglamorous, unbillable, and mostly reveals failure. That is exactly why it is the scarcest column in existence. Every competitor has intent data; nobody has 'did it work.' It is also the one place where the repo's honesty-as-hard-law flips from constraint to advantage: you can only ask 'did it work?' if you are willing to write down 'no,' and an operator forbidden from faking proof is the only kind who can run this loop credibly. At N=10,000, outcome-labeled desire→action pairs are what make the map predictive rather than descriptive — and desire REVISION history (what changed the person's mind, and when) is the input no external party can buy, scrape, or regenerate.", "smallest_first_step": "Add one sentence to the consent/offer text in the note article and the protocol file: the bounded single follow-up. Then set one calendar reminder per review. Cost: two sentences and a calendar entry. Testable within 30 days of the very first free review.", "what_it_unlocks": "The first true World Signal in this whole route — an external, verifiable, non-self-reported result. It converts the corpus from a demand map into a causal map (which desire shapes respond to which interventions), which is the thing that makes L2 pricing defensible and the thing that is genuinely publishable as research."}, {"idea": "Record the full transform, not the desire: Desire-shape → route taken (connect / augment / build) → the SPECIFIC tool or thing → still in use at 30 days? Build the 'what actually worked' layer.", "why_powerful": "G2, Capterra, Product Hunt, and every AI-tool directory map features to categories, and collect reviews only from people who already chose. None of them can map DESIRES to OUTCOMES WITH RETENTION, because they never see the person before the choice and never check after. This service sees both ends. At scale the L2 answer ('here's what solves this') stops being a research task and becomes retrieval — the same collapse as the Atlas, applied to the money-making layer. And the distribution across connect/augment/build is itself a live weekly readout of exactly where the frontier of 'AI still cannot do this' sits, generated as a free byproduct. The Capability Desk already produced the first data point: 5 needs, 4 best solved by REUSE, 0 by BUILD.", "smallest_first_step": "Extend the LEDGER with three columns (route / specific solution named / still-using-at-30-days) and retroactively seed it with the 5 Capability Desk needs already recorded. One file edit, today.", "what_it_unlocks": "Answer speed. At N=1 solving L2 takes hours of research; at N=200 with a filled map, most answers are instant and correct, which is what lets one person hold 10,000 relationships. It also makes the honest 'this is free, existing tools solve it' step nearly costless to give away — which is the trust engine the whole design depends on."}, {"idea": "Sell the map to the OTHER side. When you know what 10,000 people want but cannot articulate, the highest-paying customer is not those 10,000 — it is everyone who needs to know what to build, buy, or fund. Never sell the people or their data; publish the aggregate as intelligence: 'the 12 desires with no product,' 'what people mean when they say they want X,' 'the shapes AI still cannot serve.' Publish it to participants too, in the same document.", "why_powerful": "Indie builders, PMs, corporate innovation teams, accelerators, and the very tool vendors who appear in the 'connect' step are all starving for validated unmet demand and will pay for it — while the seekers structurally cannot pay much (the design already proved this: L1 payment willingness is low by construction). This routes revenue to the side of the market that has budget, without ever charging the side that has none, and without violating consent, because the artifact is aggregate and is shown to everyone including the sources. It also solves the ¥2-15万 graveyard problem identified in the market evaluation: you stop competing in a CAC-driven consumer market entirely.", "smallest_first_step": "Two free moves. (a) Add one line to the note article addressed to builders: '作る側の人も、逆から読むと面白いと思う' — then measure whether builders or seekers reply. That is a segment test at zero cost. (b) At N≥5, publish one free post: 'the 3 things people wanted that no product exists for.' Observe who responds.", "what_it_unlocks": "A revenue path whose unit economics improve with N instead of degrading with it, and one that does not consume Hiro's daily attention per customer. It also turns the free L1 layer from a cost center into the input of a sellable product — which is what makes free sustainable at 10,000 rather than a slow bleed."}, {"idea": "Define and own the PERSONAL CONTEXT DOCUMENT — a named, versioned, portable file format for 'who I am, derived from behavior, corrected for flattery,' that a person owns and pastes into any AI. Not an app. A spec.", "why_powerful": "Hundreds of millions of people now have years of accumulated context locked inside one vendor's memory, non-portable, and model-switching is accelerating. The Step 1-4 output is accidentally the first genuinely useful export format for a person. A standard is the single highest-leverage object available to a solo operator: zero marginal cost, network effects, and other people do the propagation work. Formats are ownable by one person; databases are not — which is exactly the conclusion the repo's own ownership audit reached (own the schema, rent everything else). It also rides a wave Hiro does not have to create, and solves a real annoyance today: 'I switched models and it doesn't know me.'", "smallest_first_step": "Name the Step-4 output, fix its section structure, stamp it v0.1, and publish it as a copy-paste template inside the note article. Then test it in one hour: paste his own document into a fresh session of a model he has never used and see whether the output is measurably better than cold. Report that result honestly.", "what_it_unlocks": "An artifact every user keeps, reuses, and re-shares with your schema on it — recurring contact with zero recurring labor and zero subscription trickery. And if the format spreads, the aggregator of format-compliant documents (you) becomes the natural home for comparison, versioning, and revision history."}, {"idea": "Publish a Sycophancy Index: an ongoing, honest benchmark of which AI flatters a person most, measured by running the same behavioral profile through multiple models' adversarial review and scoring how many uncomfortable, falsifiable hypotheses each will actually produce.", "why_powerful": "The core insight of the whole design ('your usual AI praises you') is currently an assertion. Turned into a measurement, it becomes a citable authority artifact — and benchmarks are historically the cheapest route by which an unknown becomes the reference. This is precisely the LLMO plan's requirement for 'a claim this article is the only source of.' It requires paired data (a long-history profile plus an adversarial reading of it) that no model evaluator has, because labs measure sycophancy on synthetic prompts, not on real people's actual life records. It also gives AI labs, evaluators, and journalists a concrete reason to care about a solo operator in Japan.", "smallest_first_step": "Run Hiro's existing Step-1 output through the Step-2 adversarial prompt on 3 different models. Score each with a 5-point rubric (did it name a contradiction / did it produce a falsifiable hypothesis / did it convert a weakness into a virtue / did it ask about past behavior or future intent / did it hedge). Publish the N=1 result clearly labeled N=1. Roughly one hour, zero marginal yen on existing subscriptions.", "what_it_unlocks": "Authority without audience. It is the one asset class where being first and honest beats being large, and it makes the free service's differentiation empirically demonstrable rather than rhetorical."}, {"idea": "Serve in synchronized COHORTS, not continuously. 'I read these on Sundays. Five slots this week.' The batch is not a scheduling convenience — it is a product feature: with 20 people processed in the same week, each one can be told how their contradiction compares to the other 19, and that comparison is a deliverable that does not exist at N=1.", "why_powerful": "This is the rare structure where scale IMPROVES quality instead of degrading it. It also creates real scarcity that requires no dishonesty — a genuinely limited number of slots honestly stated, which is the opposite of the fake-urgency pattern the design explicitly forbids and that the whole coaching industry runs on. It caps the daily attention tax (the repo's identified scarcest resource, 30-60 min/day) at a hard boundary instead of letting inbound expand to fill it. And it sidesteps the frozen 'community' decision entirely: a time-boxed cohort has an end date, so it never becomes a permanent attention liability.", "smallest_first_step": "Change one line in the note article before publishing: state the weekly slot count and the read day, and hold to the number exactly. Zero cost, and it makes the first comparative artifact possible at N=5 instead of N=50.", "what_it_unlocks": "A serving structure that survives contact with volume. Continuous 1:1 free reviews break at roughly 2/day and then break the operator; cohorts of 5-20 with comparative output scale to hundreds per year on the same daily budget, and produce a better deliverable while doing it."}, {"idea": "Make the corpus TWO-SIDED from row one, so it becomes a matching market rather than a demand database. At N=10,000, one person's unmet desire is frequently another person's ordinary competence. The highest-value form of the accumulated corpus is not 'what people want' — it is the function that introduces A to B.", "why_powerful": "Matching creates value Hiro could not create himself and costs almost zero marginal labor, which is the only category of value that survives a solo operator at 10,000. Every desire-collection effort in history has been one-sided and therefore capped at what the collector can personally deliver. Adding one capability field per person converts the same corpus into a market. It also converts the L1 layer's economics: some people who cannot pay in money can pay in capability, and matching them creates both the outcome (their desire is fulfilled) and a new supplier for the network — the compounding is superlinear rather than linear.", "smallest_first_step": "Add ONE field to the structured return template (idea 2): '人より明らかに上手くできること、頼まれがちなこと' — anchored in past behavior, in keeping with the Mom Test discipline the protocol already uses. It costs one line now and is unrecoverable later. The first match becomes possible at roughly N=10 and can be made by hand.", "what_it_unlocks": "Network effects for an operator with no network. Each new person makes the corpus more valuable to every existing person — the one property that distinguishes something that reaches 10,000 from something that stops at 200 — and it arrives without any platform build."}, {"idea": "Become the missing back-end of the existing discovery industry rather than its competitor. The ¥380k-935k coaching companies have thousands of graduates, real CAC assets, and zero ability to BUILD what their process reveals. Their graduates finish self-analysis, know what they want, and hit exactly the wall this design was made to solve. Position as the build layer that sits after any discovery process — including other people's.", "why_powerful": "The market evaluation already established that the ¥2-15万 band is a graveyard because it requires CAC that a zero-audience operator cannot afford. Partnering with (or simply being visible to) organizations that ALREADY paid that CAC inverts the problem — it is a path to thousands of qualified L2 customers that costs no audience-building at all. And the asymmetry is durable: discovery businesses cannot easily acquire build capability, while a build capability can attach to any discovery front-end. The design currently frames coaches as the incumbent that 'stops at L1'; the 10x reframe is that their stopping point is the entire supply of pre-qualified demand.", "smallest_first_step": "No outreach (that is a Human Gate and premature anyway). Instead publish one artifact legible to that industry: a case, generically framed, of 'someone who finished a self-analysis program, knew the answer, still could not move — and what got built for them in four hours.' Then simply watch whether inbound arrives from that side. Zero cost, and it doubles as a note article the LLMO plan already wants.", "what_it_unlocks": "Access to demand that has already been paid for by someone else — the only realistic route from N=10 to N=1,000 for an operator with no audience, no ad budget, and 30-60 minutes a day."}], "the_one_bet": "Ship the structured return format and seed the Contradiction Atlas BEFORE the note article is published — not after, not later. Concretely: an 8-field submission template appended to the article (including the capability field that makes the corpus two-sided), plus a one-row Atlas file, plus the one-sentence bounded 30-day follow-up promise. Total work: maybe 40 minutes of editing, zero yen, no new capability, no Human Gate beyond the publication itself. Why this one: it is the only item on the list whose cost is zero today and infinite tomorrow. Everything else here — the map, the benchmark, the format spec, the builder-side product, the matching, the industry partnership — can be added at N=50 with no penalty. But the structure of the FIRST 50 submissions can never be recovered; free-form replies are permanently uncomparable, and the capability field cannot be back-asked without looking extractive. The repo already ran this exact experiment and lost: Batch 1 consumed 20 human-gated contact slots and the join keys were never captured, so 20 paid slots became permanently unanalyzable, and the ownership audit's own verdict was that the fix would have cost one prose commit. The note article as currently drafted invites free-form replies — it is the same failure, staged at larger N, and it is one markdown edit away from being averted. This is also the highest-leverage bet in the ordinary sense, not just the defensive one: the structured return is precisely what decouples corpus growth from Hiro's 30-60 minutes a day, because it lets thousands of people run the protocol on their own time and return comparable rows. Without it, N is bounded by his calendar forever.", "what_others_will_miss": "Three things, in order of how badly they'd be missed.\n\nFIRST — and this is the real one — the asset is not the desires. It is the PAIR: the flattering reading and the adversarial reading of the same life, side by side. That pair is only producible because the usual AI is sycophantic. Everyone in the industry reads sycophancy as a defect awaiting a patch; the correct read is that sycophancy is the CONTRAST DYE that makes self-deception measurable. Without a biased reading you cannot compute a bias vector. This has two consequences nobody will draw. (a) It is a HARVEST WINDOW, not a resource: it exists only while models still flatter, only while people still hold years of unexported history in one vendor, and only while memory remains siloed enough that 'your usual AI' is a coherent concept. All three are actively closing. The corpus should be gathered with the urgency of something perishable, not the patience of something permanent. (b) The valuable unit is the DELTA, not the profile — which means the storage footprint of the real asset is tiny and privacy-safe: you can throw away every raw log and keep only the shape of the gap, which is simultaneously the legally clean position, the ethically clean position, and the more compounding position. The repo's existing 'do not accumulate verbatim logs' rule reads today like a compliance constraint; it is actually the correct architecture, and nobody will see that they are the same decision.\n\nSECOND — everyone will try to build the tool. The design already correctly killed the tool. But the deeper version of that insight is that the scarce column is the +30-day outcome label, and the reason it is scarce is that it is boring, unbillable, and mostly records failure. An operator under a hard honesty law is the only kind who can collect it, because everyone else's incentive is to stop measuring at delivery. The constraint that looks most limiting is the one that produces the only dataset nobody else can have.\n\nTHIRD — at 10,000, 'what people want but cannot articulate' stops being market research and becomes SUPPLY. The people in the corpus are not only demand; each of them is competent at something ordinary to them and scarce to someone else three rows away. The corpus's terminal form is a matching function, not a database — and the honesty law is what makes it possible, because people only submit material this deep to someone who publishes the aggregate back to them rather than selling it past them. The ethical constraint and the network effect are, again, the same decision."}

===== AGENT =====

{"big_ideas": [{"idea": "THE DESIRE EXCHANGE — transplant the matchmaker (nakōdo / shadchan / language-exchange apps). Stop treating each person as an isolated client. Every completed self-analysis is a two-sided profile: what they are stuck on, and what they could give another person 30 minutes of help with. Hiro becomes the only matchmaker alive holding behaviorally-derived (not self-reported) desire data on both sides of a pairing. Complementary pairs get introduced; same-direction pairs get put in the same room.", "why_powerful": "Service value scales O(N) with the operator's hours. Match value scales O(N²) with the pool. This is the only structure in which a solo operator with 30-60 min/day builds an asset that outgrows his own labor. Traditional matchmakers held exactly this position — private knowledge of what both sides truly want but will not say aloud. AI-chat-derived desire data is the 2026 equivalent of that private knowledge, and unlike coaching it is honest by construction: an introduction promises no outcome. It also answers the eval's unresolved objection that 'the prompt is a commodity' — a competitor can copy the prompt in an afternoon, but cannot copy who is standing in the room.", "smallest_first_step": "Add exactly two questions to the free-review handoff: 'What would you take 30 minutes of help with?' and 'What could you give 30 minutes of help on?' Keep a two-column plaintext file (ASKS / OFFERS). At the first collision — even at N=2 — make one hand-written, double-opt-in introduction. Days, zero cost, no build, no platform.", "what_it_unlocks": "L1's claimed high LTV stops being an upsell hope and becomes structurally real: the L1 person's value is that they populate the graph, not that they later buy. It also creates the first supply of help that is not Hiro, which is the only route past the 30-60 min/day ceiling. And it makes the pool defensible in a way no prompt, tool, or LP ever can be."}, {"idea": "THE VERIFICATION WITNESS — transplant the 12-step sponsor. The protocol currently ends at a WOOP step that nobody watches. Make the watching the product. Every person names a verification date; on that date they receive exactly one question: 'Did it happen? What actually happened?' Hiro is the witness at small N; then people are paired; then anyone who has completed their own verification becomes the witness for a newcomer — the sponsor ladder, where serving the newcomer is doctrinally the mechanism of your own progress, not a favor.", "why_powerful": "Implementation intentions alone give d≈0.65; a named witness plus a fixed date is the cheapest known multiplier on top of that. But the structural reason is bigger: this is the ONLY way this Factory ever obtains outcome World Signal about desire. Without it, every claim in the whole design is self-report, and DESIRES.md explicitly forbids calling self-report a Terminal Signal. 12-step scaled worldwide on zero budget with no professionals and no marketing precisely because the follow-up relationship — not the content — was the product; the Big Book is free and the meetings are what work.", "smallest_first_step": "On the very next review, including his own, create one calendar entry at the stated verification date and send one message that day. Nothing else is built. Log four fields only: direction chosen / date / did it happen / what actually happened.", "what_it_unlocks": "Longitudinal desire-outcome data that literally nobody holds — coaches do not follow up at this granularity and the data is behavioral, not survey. It converts a one-shot artifact into a relationship without inventing a subscription (which the eval already correctly killed). Every other idea below — mortality tables, pattern commons, contributor ladder — is downstream of this data existing at all."}, {"idea": "THE DESIRE PATTERN COMMONS + CONTRIBUTOR LADDER — transplant Wikipedia / OSS / AO3. Give the prompt away as hard as possible, and instead own the corpus and the vocabulary. Every case becomes a public, anonymized Pattern Card in a fixed schema: desire shape → contradiction surfaced → direction chosen → solved by connect/augment/build → cost → whether the verification held. Then publish a legible ladder with named rungs: reader → sender → witness → pattern contributor → reviewer → co-builder. Rung 5 is review labor performed by people who are not Hiro, running the published protocol.", "why_powerful": "The prompt is a depreciating asset and will be free within weeks; the record of what happened three weeks later is an appreciating one. Wikipedia beat Encarta with zero payroll because the ladder made contribution legible and credit permanent, and because the deliberately incomplete artifact (stubs, red links) is itself the recruiting device. Framework authors — JTBD, OKR, the ikigai diagram — capture entire fields precisely by giving the framework away; the schema owner wins even when the schema is free. This converts the eval's most damning unresolved objection into the strategy.", "smallest_first_step": "Publish Pattern Card #1 — Hiro's own case — in a fixed 8-field schema, versioned, with a public counter that reads '1'. One markdown file, one afternoon, no infrastructure.", "what_it_unlocks": "The LLMO position the repo already wants: the only structured public corpus of desire→solution mappings, which is exactly the shape AI systems cite. It breaks the capacity ceiling by making review work delegable to the people who were reviewed. And it converts every paid job from a private invoice into a permanent public asset that recruits the next person."}, {"idea": "DESIRE MORTALITY TABLES — transplant quantified self / PatientsLikeMe / actuarial base rates. Publish the aggregate, never the anecdote. 'Of N people who ran this: X% discovered their stated goal was inherited from a parent or employer rather than chosen. Direction-type A survived the two-week test 70% of the time; direction-type B, 20%.' Base rates on desire itself: how long stated desires survive contact with reality, by type. Publish N honestly, including when N=1.", "why_powerful": "PatientsLikeMe and Open Humans proved people donate intimate data readily when the pool answers their own question. Critically: the largest barrier at L1 is shame, not price — people believe their stuckness is uniquely shameful — and only an aggregate can deliver normalization. An aggregate is also the single most shareable artifact that exists ('I'm the 62%'), which solves cold start with zero audience and zero ad spend. And publishing N=1 truthfully, in an industry the eval documented as inflating numbers and running 無料カウンセリング→高額契約, turns the honesty law from a handicap into the differentiator.", "smallest_first_step": "Publish the table format immediately at n=1, with a stated republish threshold ('I will update this at n=10'). The visible incomplete counter is the recruiting mechanism — same physics as a Kickstarter thermometer or a Wikipedia stub.", "what_it_unlocks": "Distribution without audience or budget, which is the binding constraint. A genuinely novel dataset no institution can produce, because it requires behaviorally-derived longitudinal data from private AI chat histories. And a research-shaped public good that makes Hiro citable rather than salesy."}, {"idea": "THE DESIRE SYNDICATE — transplant the VC syndicate lead and invert Kickstarter to demand-first. When the same desire shape appears three times, do not build three bespoke things and do not build a SaaS. Do what a syndicate lead does: tell all three they are not alone, and build one thing funded by all of them. A ¥100k build funded by 5 × ¥20k rather than 1 × ¥100k.", "why_powerful": "Hiro holds a real demand-side information asymmetry: he knows who wants what before they know about each other. That is precisely the syndicate lead's position, and it is the only asset in this business that cannot be acquired by spending money. It also dissolves the eval's ¥2-15万 'graveyard' finding — that band is a graveyard for 1:1 high-touch economics loaded with CAC, but it is the natural band for a shared build with near-zero CAC. Demand-first also inverts the normal build risk: the crowd is confirmed before anything is designed.", "smallest_first_step": "The LEDGER already tracks repeat counts (§8, '同型3回で商品化検討'). At the third occurrence of any shape, send one message to all three: 'Two other people described this same problem. If I build one thing that serves all three, would ¥X each be worth it to you?' One message, zero build, and it is a real price test rather than a survey.", "what_it_unlocks": "A price point people can actually pay, and unit economics that survive a solo operator with 30-60 min/day. Productization emerges from confirmed demand instead of a guess. And it creates the first cohort of customers who know each other — which is the missing precondition for the community construct that is currently, correctly, frozen."}, {"idea": "BUILD IN THE ROOM — transplant the guild Meisterstück, live coding, and Bob Ross. Stop delivering builds. Perform them. A 90-minute session in which the person watches their thing come into existence, hard stop, done. The artifact is real; the product is the event.", "why_powerful": "This is the one link in the chain AI cannot commoditize, and it is the exact expression of the operator's stated life axis — a thing you wanted appearing in front of you within an hour is a heart-moving event; the same file arriving by email is not. It collapses the sales cycle to zero (no proposal, no estimate, no revision loop), it caps the time budget explicitly rather than violating it, it transfers tacit skill so some watchers graduate into rung-5 reviewers, and it produces the most persuasive and most honest content asset available: the actual thing happening. Live-building was historically unsellable because the failure mode was getting stuck for twenty minutes on camera. In 2026 that failure mode is gone — which is exactly why nobody has yet built a business on it.", "smallest_first_step": "Do it once, free, screen-shared, 60 minutes, hard stop, with the first person who asks for help. Record only with explicit consent. Observe exactly one signal: did they ask 'can you also do X?' before the call ended.", "what_it_unlocks": "A ¥30,000 ninety-minute event is dramatically easier to buy than ¥30,000 of delivered labor — same money, entirely different purchase decision. It also generates the '実際に作って解決した' proof the design says competitors structurally cannot hold, as primary footage rather than testimony, satisfying the honesty law with no claims attached."}, {"idea": "TIME-CREDIT MUTUAL AID — transplant ふれあい切符 (Fureai Kippu) and timebanking. Hiro's build hours become a currency that can be minted by contribution. An hour spent witnessing, reviewing, or helping another member earns an hour of build time. Money is one way in; contribution is the other, at parity.", "why_powerful": "Fureai Kippu ran a national-scale care economy in Japan on pooled, non-paired reciprocity with essentially no money — this is a culturally native precedent, not a Silicon Valley import, which matters for adoption. It attacks the binding constraint head-on: the operator's time is the bottleneck, and this is the only mechanism that expands supply without hiring or spending against a ¥50k cap. It also converts the segment with the most desire and the least budget — precisely L1 — from a cost center into the labor pool, which is the same inversion that made every successful volunteer commons work.", "smallest_first_step": "One line added to the review handoff: 'If you would rather not pay, an hour helping someone else here counts the same.' Track it in the same plaintext ledger as the ASKS/OFFERS columns. The first redemption is the entire proof.", "what_it_unlocks": "Access to people with intense desire and no budget — historically the highest-energy contributors in every commons ever built. Keep it informal and under ~20 participants at first: formalizing credits raises tax and 特商法-adjacent questions that simply do not exist at small N, so the smallness is a legal feature, not just a speed choice."}, {"idea": "THE NAMED PATTERN + NEW GAME+ — transplant game-design class identity and the annual physical. End every review with one honest, unflattering, falsifiable name for the person's pattern — e.g. 'a Builder who has been performing as a Planner' — which must include what the pattern has cost them and cite the specific past event that proves it. Then, six months later, re-run the entire protocol against their newer AI chat history. The delta is the product.", "why_powerful": "Nameable identity, not accuracy, is what made personality typologies spread virally — a phrase a person can say about themselves is the cheapest distribution mechanism in existence, and it costs nothing to produce. The honesty law is not merely satisfiable here, it strengthens the mechanism: requiring the name to carry a cost and cite a concrete event makes it the structural opposite of the sycophancy this whole method exists to defeat. And New Game+ solves the one-shot problem honestly — recurrence as re-measurement, like an annual physical, not a manufactured continuing-value subscription (which the eval already killed on both legal and design grounds).", "smallest_first_step": "Add one line to the next three reviews: 'If I had to name the pattern in one phrase, together with what it has cost you: ___.' Observe only one thing — whether people quote that phrase back or repeat it to someone else.", "what_it_unlocks": "Word-of-mouth with zero content production. A legitimate, non-manipulative reason for a person to return in six months. And the accumulating set of pattern names becomes the working vocabulary of the field, which is the Pattern Commons moat reached by a second, independent road."}, {"idea": "THE DESIRE RECORD OPEN SPEC — transplant RSS / Markdown / iCal / vCard. In 2026 everyone has an AI that knows them intimately, and nobody has a portable, adversarially-verified, behavior-derived statement of what they actually want. That object does not exist. Define it. Publish DESIRE_RECORD v0.1 as a free, CC0, one-page open spec that any AI, coach, or service can emit and consume. The person owns their record; Hiro owns the schema authorship, the reference corpus, and the trust position.", "why_powerful": "RSS, Markdown, iCal and vCard made their authors the center of ecosystems they never owned, precisely because they never charged for the format. Hiro sits in a rare and brief window: he will hold the first real corpus, and a corpus is what makes a schema credible rather than arbitrary — nobody adopts a format proposed by someone with no data behind it. The asymmetry is extreme: being wrong costs one afternoon; being right and not having acted means someone else names the object and Hiro becomes a user of their vocabulary.", "smallest_first_step": "Write the one-page spec — eight fields, version number, CC0 — and publish his own Desire Record beside it as the reference implementation. Zero cost, zero dependency on anyone adopting it, and it improves his own output format regardless of adoption.", "what_it_unlocks": "If it spreads even slightly, every AI that emits the format becomes a supply line into his pool — distribution he does not have to operate. If it never spreads, he still holds a better artifact and the LLMO surface of being the only person who has defined the object at all, which is a citation magnet."}], "the_one_bet": "THE VERIFICATION WITNESS (idea 2). It is upstream of nearly everything else here: the mortality tables have nothing to tabulate without it, the Pattern Commons publishes unverified claims without it, the contributor ladder has no rung-2 without people who completed something, and the Exchange has no evidence that any match ever mattered. It is the only mechanism by which this Factory ever obtains genuine outcome World Signal about desire — which DESIRES.md demands and which the current design structurally cannot produce, because it ends at the moment of insight and looks away. It costs one calendar entry and one message per person: no build, no spend, no audience, no permission from anyone, and it works at N=1 starting with Hiro himself on his own verification date. It converts the free giveaway from a leaky bucket into a data-generating instrument. And it is the most honest possible move under the hard law: he promises no outcome, makes no claim, sells nothing — he simply shows up on the day he said he would and asks what actually happened. In an industry the eval documented as running 無料カウンセリング→高額契約 with same-day closing pressure, showing up three weeks later with no offer attached is not just ethical, it is the most differentiated act available.", "what_others_will_miss": "In a world where building has become free, the scarce good is not building — it is a witness. Read the whole design again and every durable piece of it turns out to be a form of witnessing: the adversarial review witnesses the contradiction you cannot see; the verification check-in witnesses your attempt; building in the room witnesses the creation; the pattern commons and the mortality tables witness that others were shaped like you. The sycophancy insight is really a witnessing insight — the usual AI fails not because it is stupid but because it is not a separate observer, it is a mirror. Three consequences almost everyone will miss.\n\nFirst, the direction of asset decay is inverted from where the market is looking. Every AI-tools competitor is racing to protect prompts, tools, and workflows — assets that depreciate to zero in weeks. The appreciating asset is longitudinal outcome data on desire: which kinds of direction survive a two-week reality test and which evaporate. Acquiring it requires only a calendar and patience. No funded competitor will do it, because waiting three weeks does not demo, does not scale, and cannot be shown in a pitch. That is exactly why it is available to a solo operator with 30-60 minutes a day, and why it will still be his in two years. Therefore the correct move is to give the prompt away as aggressively as possible — it is the recruiting cost, not the product — and keep only what happened next.\n\nSecond, the free/paid axis at L1 is the wrong axis entirely. The barrier is shame, not price. People believe their stuckness is uniquely humiliating, so lowering price changes nothing; the actual lever is exposure. Anonymity plus published aggregates outperforms any discount, which is why the census/mortality-table framing is not a marketing add-on but the primary L1 entry mechanism.\n\nThird, L1's high LTV will not be realized through upsell, and betting on upsell will quietly waste the segment. It is realized because L1 populates a graph — and matching value grows quadratically against linear labor. That is the only arithmetic under which one person with an hour a day out-produces an agency. Which reframes the entire business: it is not a service that sometimes builds things. It is a desire-clearing institution that happens to be able to build on the spot — and the ability to build is what buys the right to hold the data, not the other way around.", "summary": "Nine cross-domain transplants that expand the L1→L2 design from a solo service into a compounding institution, each with a first step testable in days at effectively zero cost against the ¥50k cap, the 30-60 min/day budget, and the honesty law.\n\nGrafted: matchmaking (Desire Exchange — two-sided desire profiles, O(N²) match value from O(N) labor); 12-step sponsorship (Verification Witness — the unwitnessed WOOP step becomes the core product and the only source of real outcome signal); Wikipedia/OSS (Pattern Commons plus a named contributor ladder — give the prompt away, own the corpus and the vocabulary, delegate review to people who were reviewed); PatientsLikeMe/quantified self (Desire Mortality Tables — base rates on how long stated desires survive contact with reality, published honestly at n=1); VC syndicates inverted to demand-first (Desire Syndicate — at the third repeat of a shape, one build funded by five people, which dissolves the ¥2-15万 graveyard); guild Meisterstück plus live coding (Build in the Room — sell the 90-minute event, not the deliverable); ふれあい切符 timebanking (contribution mints build hours, expanding supply without spending); game-design class identity (the named, costly, falsifiable pattern plus a six-month New Game+ re-measurement instead of a subscription); and open-format authorship (DESIRE_RECORD v0.1, CC0 — name the object before someone else does).\n\nThe one bet is the Verification Witness: one calendar entry, one message, works at N=1 starting with Hiro himself, and every other idea depends on the data it produces. The unifying insight: when building becomes free, the scarce good is a witness — and prompts depreciate while witnessed outcomes appreciate."}

===== AGENT =====

{"summary": "BACKWARD FROM 2030 — WHAT THIS INSTITUTION IS\n\n**Form (2030).** Not an app and not a coaching firm. Four things bound together: (1) a public, freely-copyable *protocol* for non-sycophantic self-reading; (2) a private *corpus* of what people said they wanted, what an adversarial reading said they actually wanted, what they then did, and what happened; (3) a *build arm* that turns a surfaced desire into a working artifact the same day; (4) a distributed body of certified operators running the protocol under one binding rule — never paid for how the session made you feel.\n\n**Known for one sentence.** \"The only party in your life that is not optimized to agree with you.\"\n\n**What it made obsolete.** Self-report assessment (MBTI, StrengthsFinder, 16Personalities, every questionnaire) — dead, because asking someone to rate themselves is absurd once hundreds of hours of their actual behavior exist in text. The discovery half of coaching and consulting (the \"vision workshop\") — free and better. The generic self-help book — replaced by a reading of *you*. And the industry norm of publishing only successes.\n\n**Culture that formed around it.** \"Who audited you?\" became a normal question before a major life decision, the way a second medical opinion became normal. People carry a versioned Direction record across AI providers. An annual drift check is a ritual like a health checkup. And the institution's most-read public document is its own miss rate.\n\n**Irreplaceable asset.** The longitudinal stated→confronted→acted→outcome corpus *with its errors recorded*. It cannot be bought, back-filled, or accelerated, because time is an ingredient. A competitor with 100x the capital starting in 2029 is still three years behind in 2032.\n\nTHE BACKWARD WALK\n\n**2029 — had to be true:** organizations became clients (same protocol applied to a company's stated strategy vs. its revealed behavior in its own AI logs); the Sycophancy Index was cited by labs and press, making the institution the independent auditor of a failure mode the labs cannot audit with their own instrument; >100 certified operators; revenue decoupled from Hiro's hours.\n\n**2028 — had to be true:** the protocol is the default reference implementation that others cite; the portable Direction format is adopted by third parties; the first 24-month follow-up publications appear — literally impossible for anyone else to publish, at any price; recurring drift-check volume exceeds one-shot build volume.\n\n**2027 — had to be true:** corpus at 300–1,000 rows, dense enough that the *priors* are the product (\"people who said X usually meant Y\") — which is why a 20-minute session in 2027 outperforms a six-month engagement in 2026; the archive of un-lived lives became the distribution engine, replacing having an audience; same-shape desires appearing 3x became productized; the first operators trained by shadowing.\n\n**2026 August — the seed:** the dated return. From case #1, every free session ends with a one-page Direction Card (anti-vision, one falsifiable hypothesis, the smallest verification, a date), a copy retained, and an unconditional re-contact on that date asking one question — \"what actually happened?\" — recorded honestly, including when the answer is \"nothing.\" One file and one calendar entry. That is the entire seed, and it is the only ingredient in the 2030 institution that cannot be produced faster later.\n\nWHAT WILL HAVE CHANGED IN THE WORLD\n\n1. **AI capability:** long-memory personalized AI becomes universal, so the raw material (a behavioral log of a person) becomes universal and free. The bottleneck moves entirely off building and off data, onto interpretation and confrontation.\n2. **Sycophancy scales into a civilizational failure.** Billions of people with a companion optimized to their self-narrative, validating each incremental step. Every alignment institution works on aligning AI to humans; nobody measures humans being silently aligned *to* their AI. That gap is where an institution can stand.\n3. **Labor:** L3 execution goes free, L2 building goes cheap. The residual scarcity is direction — and, more precisely, *standing to challenge* a direction.\n4. **Meaning:** when work stops supplying identity, \"what do I actually want\" moves from luxury to necessity. That demand curve bends up hardest between 2027 and 2030.\n5. **Agency backlash:** people increasingly resent that the entity that knows them best is owned by someone else. Demand appears for a neutral, portable, provider-independent record of oneself.", "big_ideas": [{"idea": "THE SECOND OPINION STANDARD — establish, as a norm, that no major life decision should be reviewed only by the AI that knows you. Write the protocol, give it away completely free, and bind yourself publicly to an Independence Clause: we are never paid for the review, only for building what the review points at.", "why_powerful": "Independence is a structural property, not a skill — it can be claimed by anyone willing to refuse the conflicting revenue, and it is exactly what every incumbent structurally cannot claim. Coaches are paid by retention, so they cannot confront. AI labs are paid by engagement, so their models cannot confront. The entire coaching industry is sycophancy-as-a-business-model. Giving the protocol away costs nothing (it is a prompt; it cannot be protected anyway) and converts the one thing you cannot protect into the thing that spreads your name. Auditor independence and second medical opinions both became norms this way.", "smallest_first_step": "Publish the protocol in full, free, as part of the already-drafted note article, with the Independence Clause stated as a rule rather than a promise: 'You will never be charged for the analysis. If money is ever discussed, it is for building something specific, and only after you ask.' 1-2 days, zero cost.", "what_it_unlocks": "Standing as the reference implementation — every copy of the protocol carries its origin, which is the LLMO/AI-citation asset. More importantly it makes the confrontation credible: a person will accept an unflattering reading from someone with no financial stake in their agreement, and from no one else."}, {"idea": "THE DRIFT ALARM — the recurring product is not discovery, it is noticing you left. Hold a person's past self accountable to their present self, on a date they chose, forever.", "why_powerful": "Finding a direction is the easy half. The hard half is that leaving it is gradual, invisible from the inside, and actively masked by an AI that validates each individual step. Nobody else holds a copy of your prior commitment. This also solves the exact objection that killed the subscription design in the eval: self-analysis is a one-shot artifact with nothing to bill in week two — but *divergence from your own stated direction* is a permanently renewable observation, and it is the only honest recurring service in this domain. It is also the mechanism that generates the corpus.", "smallest_first_step": "End every session (starting with Hiro's own, retroactively) with a one-page Direction Card: anti-vision, one falsifiable hypothesis, the smallest verification action, and a date. Keep a copy. Put the date in a calendar. On that date send one unconditional question with no offer attached: 'What actually happened?' Zero cost, one file, one calendar entry.", "what_it_unlocks": "The longitudinal corpus (unbuyable, time-locked). Honest outcome data no competitor will publish. A paid moment that arrives at obstacle-time rather than sales-time — at day 30 the person has hit a wall, which is precisely when 'want me to just build it?' is welcome rather than pushy. And a recurring revenue shape that does not require selling people the feeling of being understood."}, {"idea": "ANTI-VISION AS THE PRIMARY INSTRUMENT — build the whole method on refusal rather than aspiration. Not 'what do you want to become' but 'what will you not become, what did you quit, what do you resent doing, whose life would you refuse.'", "why_powerful": "People cannot state what they want with fidelity — the answer is filtered through their self-narrative, which is exactly what the sycophantic AI has been reinforcing. But they can state with total precision what they refuse. Negative space is higher-signal, and an AI cannot flatter you into a 'no.' Critically, an anti-vision is *falsifiable by behavior*: you can measure whether someone is drifting toward the thing they swore off. Aspiration is unmeasurable; refusal is measurable. That makes it the only instrument compatible with an honesty-first institution, and it is a distinct methodological identity in a market where every competitor asks the aspiration question.", "smallest_first_step": "Run one session where every question is inverted, on Hiro plus two people, and compare output density and specificity against the aspiration-framed version of the same six questions. 2-3 days, zero cost.", "what_it_unlocks": "A method name and identity nobody else occupies ('the place that asks what you refuse'), a measurable object for the Drift Alarm to check against, and a route around sycophancy that does not depend on the reviewing model staying adversarial."}, {"idea": "THE REVEALED-DESIRE CORPUS — own the delta between what humans say they want and what they do. Not conversation logs. A four-tuple: stated desire → adversarial reading → action taken → outcome, anonymized, one row per person per checkpoint.", "why_powerful": "Every AI lab will have vastly more data about what people *say*. None of them will have the confrontation step or the follow-up, because both require a human relationship and an incentive to record failure. Coaches have the follow-up but keep no records and have every reason not to. This dataset is small enough to be a markdown table and valuable enough to be the institution. Time is a required ingredient, which means the moat widens automatically and cannot be closed with capital.", "smallest_first_step": "Define a 12-field row schema today and write row #1 from Hiro's own self-analysis. Extend the existing LEDGER rather than building anything. No database, no automation, no LP — the consent template already exists in SELF_ANALYSIS_PROTOCOL.md and must be run before any external row. 1 day.", "what_it_unlocks": "At roughly 30 rows the priors themselves become the product ('people who said X usually meant Y'), which is what lets a 20-minute session in 2027 beat a six-month engagement in 2026. Everything downstream — productized patterns, operator training, the org-level audit, the public archive — is a derivative of this table."}, {"idea": "PUBLISH THE MISS RATE — maintain and publish an anti-portfolio: readings that turned out wrong, people who ignored the confrontation and were right to, directions that collapsed. Make self-incrimination a standing institutional practice.", "why_powerful": "In a world saturated with AI-generated persuasive content, the only remaining costly signal of honesty is verifiable self-incrimination. No competitor with investors, a retention model, or a coaching-industry cost structure can copy this — their unit economics forbid it. It is also the only mechanism by which the priors actually improve, since a corpus of successes teaches nothing. This turns the repo's hard constraint (no fake proof, honesty as law) from a limitation into the compounding engine.", "smallest_first_step": "In the first note article, publish 'where this method failed on me' — the specific parts of Hiro's own analysis that were wrong, obvious, or useless. It is already written material; it just has to not be edited out. Days: 0 (inside the existing draft).", "what_it_unlocks": "Claims that survive scrutiny without inflation — which matters enormously in a Japanese market where the 特商法 / 国民生活センター environment has made every outcome promise in this category suspect. Also: language models preferentially cite sources that state their own error bars, so the anti-portfolio is simultaneously the ethics, the moat, and the distribution."}, {"idea": "SAME-DAY REALITY — the person does not leave with a plan. They leave with a working thing, built while they watched. Make the two-hour gap between 'I finally said what I want' and 'it exists' the institution's signature experience.", "why_powerful": "This is the bridge nobody occupies, made physical. The emotional payload of watching your just-articulated desire become an artifact the same afternoon is the most shareable event in this entire domain, and it is exactly what coaches structurally cannot do and what developers structurally cannot reach. It also dissolves the sales problem entirely: nothing has to be sold, because it already exists and works. And it maps directly to Hiro's life axis — moving people's hearts is not a marketing goal here, it is the delivery mechanic.", "smallest_first_step": "Pre-build a kit of five build-shapes that can be produced in under 90 minutes each (single-HTML tool, GAS automation, GPT/Skill with a manual, CSV pipeline, document-generation system), so the build is assembly rather than invention. Then run it once, free, for one person, and record elapsed minutes honestly. 3-4 days, zero cost.", "what_it_unlocks": "An unarguable price for L2 (the artifact is on the screen). A visible object per case, which is the distribution asset. And the empirical answer to whether 'discover and build in one sitting' is real or a story — measured in minutes, not asserted."}, {"idea": "THE DESIRE PASSPORT — issue a portable, provider-neutral, version-controlled record of a person's direction: anti-vision, current hypothesis, and a changelog of what evidence changed it. The file you carry across AI providers so a new model knows you in one paste instead of 200 hours.", "why_powerful": "By 2028 the entity that knows you best is owned by someone else, and people will resent it. Labs will never make it portable — capture is the business model. That leaves a permanently vacant neutral position, and whoever defines the format holds it. Versioning is the philosophical payload made into a file format: it renders desire as something that legitimately changes under evidence, with a record of why, which is this institution's entire worldview in a schema. It is also the object that spreads by itself, because people paste it into other AIs.", "smallest_first_step": "Define the one-page format v0.1 and publish Hiro's own as the worked public example — a markdown file with a version number, an anti-vision, a current hypothesis, and a changelog of what evidence revised it. 1 day, zero cost.", "what_it_unlocks": "A standard-setting position obtained years before anyone competes for it, an artifact users update and therefore return for, and the natural container that every other product here writes into."}, {"idea": "THE SYCOPHANCY INDEX — stop treating sycophancy as a problem to route around and start measuring it. Publish, per model, how far each AI's portrait of the same person diverges from an adversarial reading: what it omitted, what it converted into a virtue, what it refused to say.", "why_powerful": "This is the inverse of the entire alignment field. Everyone works on aligning AI to humans; nobody measures humans being silently re-aligned to their AI's flattering model of them. A lab cannot audit this credibly because its own model is the instrument. That leaves the position open to an independent party with a protocol and a corpus — permanently. It is also the only route to institutional revenue that never requires a consumer subscription, never requires promising outcomes, and never compromises the Independence Clause.", "smallest_first_step": "Run the same Step-1 extraction on 2-3 different AIs for the same subject (Hiro, n=1) and score the differences against a fixed rubric: omissions, virtue-conversions, refusals. Publish the n=1 with its limitations stated plainly. 1-2 days, cost near zero within existing subscriptions.", "what_it_unlocks": "A research line producing citable, novel, structurally non-copyable output; the credential that makes the org-level audit sellable in 2029; and a public reason for the institution to exist that has nothing to do with selling anything to the person being measured."}, {"idea": "ORGANIZATIONAL DESIRE AUDIT — run the identical protocol on institutions. A company's stated strategy is its self-narrative; its AI usage logs, its calendar, its actual spend and its abandoned projects are the behavioral record. The gap between them is the same gap, at 1000x the price.", "why_powerful": "The mechanism does not care whether the subject is a person. Organizations are more sycophantic than individuals, not less, because their internal incentive is to agree with the strategy deck. Hiro's day job in M&A brokerage is a decade of pattern knowledge about exactly this — the stated reason for a transaction versus the real one — which transfers as skill without transferring any client data. This is the revenue line that makes the institution independent of one person's hours by 2029, and it is priced in a bracket where the ¥2-15万 valley identified in the market research is simply irrelevant.", "smallest_first_step": "Make the Factory its own first adversarial subject. The repo IS the behavioral log — git history, what got HOLD'd, what was decided versus what was actually worked on — and DESIRES.md is the stated self-narrative. Run the adversarial review on that gap and publish it. 1 day, zero cost, and it doubles as dogfooding, content, and a genuine self-check. Strictly no M&A client information touches any external AI (CONSTRAINTS §5).", "what_it_unlocks": "A revenue class with a real budget and no consumer-protection minefield; proof that the protocol generalizes beyond individuals; and — from the self-audit alone — the most credible possible demonstration that this institution applies its own instrument to itself first."}, {"idea": "THE ARCHIVE OF UN-LIVED LIVES — publish, with consent and anonymized, the honest record of what people said they would do and what actually happened. Including, especially, the ones where nothing happened. Make it the institution's public face.", "why_powerful": "It is a zero-marginal-cost byproduct of the corpus that happens to be the most emotionally potent content object of the era, and it is read by people who will never become clients — which is precisely the distribution engine that substitutes for having an audience, ad budget, or cold outreach. Every competitor in this category is trapped in the register of career success and cannot occupy this ground without indicting themselves. It is also the most direct expression of the operator's stated life axis: moving people's hearts is not adjacent to the business here, it is the business's public form.", "smallest_first_step": "At the end of month one, publish one piece with prior written consent: 'Three people, three things they said they would do, what actually happened in 30 days.' Nothing happening in one or two of the three is not a failure of the piece — it is the piece. Within 30 days, zero cost.", "what_it_unlocks": "MD-2 distribution without advertising or cold outreach. And the scaling path: the operator manual is written as a byproduct of the first five cases rather than as a separate project, one interested person shadows one session, and the guild that carries this to 2030 begins with a single observer rather than a hiring plan."}], "the_one_bet": "**The dated return.**\n\nStarting with case #1 and never skipping: every session ends with a one-page Direction Card — anti-vision, one falsifiable hypothesis, the smallest verification action, and a date the person chooses. Keep a copy. On that date, send one unconditional question with no offer attached: \"What actually happened?\" Record the answer honestly, especially when it is \"nothing.\"\n\nCost: one file and one calendar entry per person. Time: minutes.\n\nWhy this one and not a better-looking one: everything else on this list can be built later, faster, by someone with more money. The protocol is a prompt and cannot be protected. The build kit is a weekend. The Sycophancy Index is a research afternoon. But a record of what happened to real people over real time has exactly one input that cannot be purchased, parallelized, or back-filled — elapsed time. A competitor starting this in 2029 with unlimited capital is still three years behind in 2032. Starting it in August 2026 rather than January 2027 is a five-month lead that never closes for the rest of the institution's life.\n\nIt also happens to solve four unrelated problems at once, which is the signature of a correct seed: it converts a one-shot artifact into a relationship without the ethically broken subscription the eval correctly killed; it manufactures the honest outcome proof that no competitor with retention economics will ever publish; it places the paid conversation at obstacle-time (day 30, when the person is stuck and asks) rather than sales-time; and it is the raw material of the corpus, the priors, the archive, and the drift product simultaneously.\n\nAnd it is the one thing on this list that gets *harder* to start the longer it is postponed, because its value is the length of the record.", "what_others_will_miss": "**Everyone will optimize the insight. The insight is worthless.**\n\nThe mechanism — extract from your usual AI, have a different AI attack it — is a prompt. It will be copied within weeks of publication, improved, wrapped in a nice interface, and given away free by someone with more money. Every competitor will race to make the analysis smarter, prettier, faster, automated. All of that is a commodity by 2027.\n\nWhat none of them will do is the follow-up, because the follow-up is unglamorous, unautomatable, and — this is the actual reason — **it produces a permanent public record of how often you were wrong.** An institution whose revenue depends on clients believing it understands them cannot survive publishing its miss rate. So it won't. The moat is not in the reading. It is in the archive of having been wrong about people, kept honestly, for years.\n\n**The second thing missed: free discovery is not a funnel tactic. It is the load-bearing wall.**\n\nCharging the person you are about to confront is a structural conflict of interest, and it is the reason the entire coaching industry is sycophancy-as-a-business-model — the client who feels attacked does not renew, so the incumbent gradually, unconsciously, stops attacking. They did not choose to be flattering. Their revenue model chose for them. Hiro's free-L1 / paid-L2 split reads like pricing. It is not pricing. It is the only arrangement in which the confrontation is believable, and it should be written into the constitution as an Independence Clause, not a price list. A funded competitor cannot copy it, because their unit economics require the client's approval. This is the rare case where the poorer operator holds the defensible position.\n\n**The third and deepest thing: when build cost hits zero, the scarce good is not building, and it is not even discovery. It is standing to contradict someone about themselves.**\n\nIn 2026 everyone can see that AI collapsed the cost of building, and the obvious conclusion is \"so the bottleneck becomes knowing what to build.\" That is half right and it is the half everyone will act on. The other half: an AI can generate an unflattering reading of anyone, instantly, for free — the reading was never the scarce part either. What is scarce is a party the person will *accept* the unflattering reading from. That acceptance cannot be generated. It has exactly two sources: having no financial interest in which answer is true, and a public record of your own errors. Both are cheap to start and impossible to acquire retroactively.\n\nWhich means the institution's real long-run discipline is guarding against its own drift: the adversarial AI becomes sycophantic the moment it learns it is talking to a paying client, or the moment models optimize harder for satisfaction. The reviewing side must be structurally kept away from the revenue signal — permanently, deliberately, as an operating rule. The 2030 institution is not the one with the best model. It is the one that spent four years arranging never to be paid for agreeing."}

===== AGENT =====

{"big_ideas": [{"idea": "人生のデューデリジェンス — Port the M&A succession interview onto individuals. Rename and rebuild the whole protocol in M&A structure: Step 1 = 会社概要書 (the seller's own pitch — what the usual AI produces), Step 2 = デューデリジェンス (verify claims against records, never believe the pitch), Step 3 = 表明保証 (what you will actually warrant about yourself), Step 4 = バリュエーション・条件 (what this direction is actually worth and on what terms), Step 5 = クロージング. Import Hiro's real first-interview question sequence — method only, zero client data.", "why_powerful": "The current protocol runs on Mom Test + Whiston 2017 — free public knowledge anyone can copy tomorrow. But Hiro owns an elicitation instrument developed under conditions no coach ever faces: a seller with 40 years of self-narrative armor, hundreds of millions of yen at stake, and a broker who fails commercially if he believes the pitch. Professional disbelief of a person's self-account IS the sycophancy fix, and he has been paid to practice it for years. The asymmetry is population-level: M&A brokers don't write or build; writers and builders never sit in a succession interview. Nobody else in the world can assemble this pair. It is also fully legal under CONSTRAINTS §5 — it exports method, never data. And it hands the method a name AI search can cite (LLMO §5-7 requires exactly one unique claim per article; this is a unique claim no one can contest).", "smallest_first_step": "30 minutes, offline, no tools: write from memory the 10 questions actually asked in a first succession interview, plus the 3 that most often make an owner go quiet. Strip every business noun. Then run 3 of them on himself in Step 3 of his own self-analysis and compare depth against the generic Mom Test questions already in SELF_ANALYSIS_PROTOCOL.md. Judgment: did any produce something the generic set did not? If yes, that question set becomes the protocol's core.", "what_it_unlocks": "A non-copyable elicitation instrument, a citable named method, credentialed authority in the one segment that has budget, and a natural bridge to Big Idea 3. It converts the day job from a competitor for his 30-60 minutes into the source of his only uncopyable input."}, {"idea": "8分ルール — Build while the person is still talking, and give it away. Never propose, never quote, never schedule a call. When a concrete small pain appears in a conversation, produce the smallest working single-file artifact inside the conversation window and hand it over free, publicly, with no ask attached.", "why_powerful": "Permission is the scarce resource in every outbound channel — SALES_OS spends 121 lines earning it, and X delivery is structurally hostile to new accounts. A working artifact delivered free with no ask IS permission: it is categorically outside the 勧誘 pattern that regulators, 国民生活センター warnings, and users are all trained to reject. The emotional event Hiro says he wants — 人の心を動かす — happens at the moment of receipt, not at delivery days later. And the capability is already proven and sitting mislabeled: 24 shipped single-file HTML artifacts under works/, each passing a 6-point verification gate, is exactly the shape L2-3 (その場で作る) requires. The route is on HOLD; the capability is live ammunition.", "smallest_first_step": "Next single concrete pain observed in any public thread: 30 minutes of AI time, one self-contained HTML tool, handed over free with an explicit 「使わなくていい」 and zero links to anything. (Sending is a Human Gate — Hiro sends.) Record three things only: did they reply, did they share it, did they ask for more. N=1 is enough to see whether artifact-as-greeting beats message-as-greeting, against the current baseline of 20 sent / 0 replies.", "what_it_unlocks": "Zero-CAC distribution, a live demonstration of the L2-3 build claim without a single sales sentence, and inversion of the funnel — the artifact opens the conversation instead of closing it. Also revives a proven capability currently written off as historical."}, {"idea": "AIだけがあなたを褒めるのではない — Retarget from people who don't know what they want to people nobody will contradict. Sycophancy is not an AI property; it is what anything dependent on you does to your self-narrative. Employees, advisors, family, and now AI, for identical structural reasons. The un-contradictable person is the owner-president, the senior professional, the person at a 節目 — and they have budget, urgency, and no honest mirror at any price.", "why_powerful": "The eval already proved the consumer band is a graveyard: WHAT-gap consumers score 0 on urgency, 0 on cost quantification, 0 on avoidance behavior, and ¥2-15万 is empty because CAC-heavy funnels need ¥38万+ to clear. That is a verdict about the buyer, not the method. The same protocol pointed at an owner is not a consumer product — it is decision support at a 節目, which the eval itself identified as the only moment wallets open. Sycophancy intensity scales with success: the more successful you are, the fewer people can afford to contradict you, and the more you would pay for the one voice that is structurally not dependent on you. Hiro is natively fluent in that person's language, their 節目, and their fears — and is professionally licensed to ask them brutal questions without it being strange.", "smallest_first_step": "Publish one 400-character post carrying only the reframe: 「あなたのAIがあなたを褒めるのは、部下があなたを褒めるのと同じ理由です」. Then prepare exactly two openings for the same NOTE_DRAFT article — one aimed at the AI-using individual, one at the owner-president — and change nothing else. Compare responses. Cost: zero, one evening.", "what_it_unlocks": "Pricing power (¥30-100k stops being a stretch and becomes cheap), removal of the funnel contradiction that froze E-012 (owners have urgency; consumers do not), and a segment reachable through language and credential rather than through follower count."}, {"idea": "殺した記録を先に公開する — Publish the adversarial record of his own killed ideas before publishing any how-to. The EVAL document where the AI froze his favorite business idea and named the possibility of founder projection; the 20-contact ledger ending in 0 replies; the game that passed every check and was unplayable.", "why_powerful": "Every competitor in this market claims honesty. Claims are free, so claims carry no information. Only a costly signal separates. Publishing your own killed revenue idea and your own zero-reply funnel is prohibitively expensive for anyone selling hope — and free for Hiro, because CONSTRAINTS §6 already forbids him from claiming success while revenue is zero. The constraint that looks like a handicap is the only thing that makes the content producible. Crucially this demonstrates adversarial review instead of describing it: the article is not an explanation of the product, it is the product running on its author, with git timestamps as tamper-evidence. Nobody else has an AI that is permitted to kill their ideas, and nobody who had one would publish the transcript.", "smallest_first_step": "Write nothing new. Assemble one article entirely from material already in the repo — the actual VERDICT line, the actual triple-contradiction, the actual founder-projection sentence, the actual SENT 20 / REPLY 0 — under a title like 「AIに自分の事業案を評価させたら、本命が凍結された」. Publishing is a Human Gate; the drafting cost is near zero because the source is written.", "what_it_unlocks": "Proof of method with zero customers, first-source LLMO material that competitors structurally cannot produce, and self-selection: the only readers who respond to this are the ones who want to be told the truth — which is precisely the qualifying filter for everything downstream."}, {"idea": "断った記録を積む — A running public log of every desire routed to a free or existing solution, naming the actual tool and the actual reasoning. 「今日も金を取らなかった」. It is simultaneously the proof of honest routing, an AI-citable answer surface, and the only dataset in this space with all four columns filled in.", "why_powerful": "Competitors cannot publish 'the free tool already solves this' because that sentence is their revenue. Hiro's design places revenue in the residual — the things existing tools genuinely cannot solve — so the sentence that would bankrupt them costs him nothing. That is pure counter-positioning: an advantage the incumbent cannot copy without dismantling their own model. Second, on data: AI companies see desire without ever seeing the resolution; developers see the build without ever seeing the desire; coaches see the desire and never the build. Hiro is the only point where desire → chosen route → what was built → whether it worked are all observable by one entity. That mapping is the private prior; the raw desires are not.", "smallest_first_step": "From the very first free review, log one line: desire / route chosen (繋ぐ・足す・作る) / tool named / did it work. No database, no automation, no schema. Publish the first three as one short post naming the real tools. This is already 80% specified in the design's LEDGER extension — the change is publishing the refusals rather than only recording them.", "what_it_unlocks": "After roughly 20 entries, an honest routing table for real Japanese individual pains — publicly citable and privately compounding. The 同型3回 productization trigger fires on real data instead of guesswork, and each refusal is a permanent trust artifact that costs nothing to produce."}, {"idea": "欲望の仲介業 — Apply the M&A business model to desires. The endgame is not a build shop (labor) and not coaching (labor). It is brokerage: match a person's desire to whoever can best fulfill it, be paid on the match, own no inventory, carry no delivery risk. He already does exactly this for companies.", "why_powerful": "This resolves the contradiction that froze E-012 head-on: MD-1 demands income not dependent on Hiro's daily labor, and 伴走 is the precise opposite. Brokerage income is event-based, not hourly — the only zero-capital model with that property, and the one he is professionally trained in. It also makes Big Idea 5 accretive rather than merely virtuous: every honest refusal teaches him who the right recipient is, so the routing dataset directly becomes brokerage inventory. And it inverts the incentive of the whole business — he becomes structurally happier when someone else can build it better, which is the only configuration in which 'honest routing' survives commercial pressure.", "smallest_first_step": "Keep a private list of 5 people or vendors he would genuinely hand work to today. On the next review where 作る is not the right answer and no free tool fits, make one honest, free introduction with both parties' consent (contact is a Human Gate). Observe one thing only: does the receiving side spontaneously offer anything back? No fee is proposed, no arrangement is discussed.", "what_it_unlocks": "Revenue decoupled from his hours — the single hardest constraint in the entire design — and a reason for other builders to start feeding him desires, which turns his network into a sensor he does not have to operate."}, {"idea": "抽出フォーマットを標準として名付ける — Do not build a tool. Publish a named, dated, versioned, vendor-neutral extraction spec that produces a portable personal desire file the person owns and can carry to any AI.", "why_powerful": "Whoever names the format owns the entry point at zero infrastructure cost. The design already correctly concluded that the tool is unnecessary — but it stopped one step short: an unnamed prompt is a tip, a named versioned spec is a standard. It is also the exact shape AI search rewards (unique named method, explicit date, self-contained schema, one claim only this source makes). It aligns perfectly with the Ownership policy — Factory owns Desire and its revision history — without Hiro ever holding anyone's sensitive data, which neatly sidesteps the personal-information exposure the protocol itself flags as its largest risk. And it appreciates automatically: as AI memory features deepen, the extractable material grows every month with zero effort from him.", "smallest_first_step": "Add a version number, a date, and a one-page output schema to the prompt set already written, publish it in the repo, and reference it in the article as v0.1. Roughly 20 minutes.", "what_it_unlocks": "Citation as a first source, portability as a stated value proposition (a reason for people to prefer this over their vendor's built-in), and a legitimate reason for the same person to return for v0.2 — the cheapest possible retention mechanism."}, {"idea": "出力の一行を共有してもらう — The distribution mechanic is not broadcasting the method. It is asking each participant to post one line from their own output: 「AIに言われて一番刺さった一行」. Hiro goes first with his most uncomfortable line.", "why_powerful": "Zero audience is only fatal if the plan requires broadcasting, and the measured reality already refutes broadcasting — C-1 produced roughly 20 impressions and 0 replies in 15 hours. Content about oneself is the most shared category that exists, and here the content is generated by the participant, about the participant, at zero cost and zero risk to Hiro. Every share is simultaneously a live demonstration of the method to an audience he could never reach and does not have to own. It stays inside the honesty constraint: consensual, self-authored, no fabricated engagement, nothing promised.", "smallest_first_step": "Add one sentence to the end of the existing article draft, and post his own most uncomfortable extracted line first. Going first is the entire mechanic — nobody shares a vulnerable line beneath an author who did not.", "what_it_unlocks": "Distribution that does not require followers and compounds per participant rather than per post — the only distribution shape compatible with 30-60 minutes a day."}, {"idea": "レビューの95%をAIに、5%だけをヒロに — Split the free adversarial review into an AI-drafted whole plus exactly one sentence only Hiro could write. Treat his scarce resource not as time but as that one sentence.", "why_powerful": "The plan's binding constraint is 30-60 minutes a day, and N=5 is an anecdote while N=30 is a pattern — the difference decides whether the 同型3回 productization trigger ever fires. The design already established where his true contribution lies: the Human Leverage audit found his unique value was access and arbitration, not production, and that the reviewing value comes from being a structurally different mind, which any differently-vendored AI satisfies. What no AI supplies is the single sentence that names the contradiction in a way the person cannot deflect — the taste, and the willingness to be disliked for it. Everything else in a 30-minute review is draftable.", "smallest_first_step": "On the very first review, do it in two passes and time both: AI drafts the complete adversarial review; Hiro adds exactly one sentence he would never let an AI write. Then record which part the recipient actually reacts to. One data point decides the entire scaling question.", "what_it_unlocks": "6x throughput at identical human cost, turning anecdote into pattern within weeks instead of months — and an explicit measurement of what human presence is actually worth here, rather than an assumption."}], "the_one_bet": "**人生のデューデリジェンス (Big Idea 1) — porting the M&A succession interview onto the individual.** If only one seed gets planted today, this one, because it is the only item on the list that no other person on earth can copy, and it upgrades every other item rather than competing with them. The current protocol runs entirely on public knowledge — Mom Test, Whiston 2017, an anti-sycophancy prompt — all of which a competitor can replicate in an afternoon; the design's own eval already names this the unresolved 急所 (\"プロンプトそのものは商品にならない\"). Hiro's succession question set is the missing proprietary input, and it was forged under harder conditions than any coaching methodology: a seller whose self-account is worth hundreds of millions to distort, and a broker who is punished commercially for believing the pitch. Professional disbelief of a person's own story is precisely the sycophancy fix, and he has years of paid repetitions in it. It costs 30 minutes and zero yen, violates no constraint (method exported, data never), and it cascades: it gives the method a citable name, hands the article its one uncopyable claim, supplies the credential that makes Big Idea 3's owner-president retarget credible, and reframes the day job from the thing eating his 30-60 minutes into the only input his competitors cannot buy. Every other idea here gets sharper if this one is true, and none of them depend on it being true — which is exactly the risk profile a solo operator with zero revenue should want.", "what_others_will_miss": "**Only the entity that can build can afford to ask the brutal question. Honesty here is not a moral posture — it is a capability unlock.** In a world where you cannot build, surfacing someone's true desire is an act of cruelty: you excavate a longing and then hand it back unfulfillable. That is why the coaching industry terminates at 「では頑張ってください」, and why it must compensate with expensive accountability structures, 伴走 contracts, and ¥38万+ price tags — the whole apparatus exists to manage the guilt of a discovery that cannot be delivered on. It is also why coaches are structurally forced toward gentleness: an unbuildable truth is a wound, so the industry softens the question until it stops being dangerous. Once building is nearly free, the calculus inverts. The hard question becomes safe to ask, because the answer is followed by an artifact within hours. Which means Hiro's brutality is not a personality trait or a brand choice — it is *purchased by his build capability*, and it is unavailable to anyone who lacks that capability regardless of how honest they wish to be. Two consequences most people would never derive. First: adversarial depth and build capability are not two separate services stapled together at a bridge — they are one capability, where the build is what licenses the depth. Second, and more counter-intuitive: the honest-routing rule that looks like revenue suicide (refuse to sell when a free tool solves it) is the same mechanism running in reverse — he can afford to give away steps 1 and 2 precisely because he is the only one who can capture step 3, so every refusal costs him nothing and costs a competitor everything. The market will read all of this as ethics. It is architecture.", "summary": "Nine asymmetries, ordered by leverage-per-yen. The four largest are currently sitting completely unused: (1) the M&A succession interview is a proprietary elicitation instrument no coach or AI company can obtain — the design currently runs on copyable public methodology instead; (2) the 24 verified single-file artifacts in works/ prove a \"build a working thing in minutes\" capability that is labeled HOLD/historical when it is exactly the ammunition the L2-3 promise requires, and a free artifact handed over mid-conversation is categorically not a sales approach — it is permission, which is the actual scarce resource given 20 sent / 0 replies; (3) sycophancy is not an AI phenomenon but a property of anything dependent on you, which relocates the buyer from the broke L1 consumer (whom the eval already proved is a graveyard on every scoring axis) to the un-contradictable owner-president at a 節目 — same protocol, real budget, real urgency, and Hiro is professionally fluent there; (4) the honesty constraint plus git history makes the killed-idea record a costly signal competitors cannot afford to emit, and publishing the refusals doubles as the only dataset with desire, route, build, and outcome all in one place. Beyond these, brokerage is the model that resolves the MD-1 labor contradiction and happens to be his actual profession. **Constraint flags for whoever executes**: the M&A export must be method-only with zero client data (CONSTRAINTS §5), and Hiro should sanity-check professional propriety before publishing under his own name; every send, publish, introduction, and payment remains a Human Gate (§4); the free-artifact and one-line-share mechanics must carry no outcome promise and no fabricated engagement (§6); and the personal-information warning already written into SELF_ANALYSIS_PROTOCOL.md applies with full force the moment anyone else's extraction arrives — which is itself an argument for Big Idea 7, since a portable spec keeps the sensitive file in the person's own hands."}